We start by importing zipfile to enable us to unzip the dataset and rename it accordingly. It is important for us to have the correct file path. We then extract the zip file, extract the respective csv file and thereafter rename it.

Next, we shall import pandas to assist with cleaning the dataset to address missing values. We create a dataframe out of our csv file such that we can sum up each column to return for missing values and make use of a heatmap to visualize this. Of the 12 columns, 5 have missing values, namely: director, cast, country, date_added and rating. Thereafter, we check for the percentage of missing data for each variable to give us further context. 

To enhance our cleaning and understanding of the data, we check the class imbalances in our dataset. There are three variables with significant amounts of missing values i.e. director, cast and country. Since we have categorical data, we shall drop the director column since there are too many missing values and opt to use the lambda function to fill in the missing values for the country and cast variables.  Now we have taken care of the three significant variables with missing categorical information. Further to that, whereas date_added and rating have few missing values, we carry out the same function to impute data and can therefore proceed to exploring our dataset.

After cleaning up our dataset, we can now perform some statistical analysis. We start by understanding the distribution of some of the variables like country and cast which returns the USA and Jeff Dunham as the most frequent in the respective categories. By performing our analysis, we obtain a count of 6,234 data points within our dataset with an average release year of 2013. The earliest release year is 1925, the median release year is 2016 and the most recent release year is 2020.

Since we are not particularly interested in the most watched genre and ratings distribution, we shall use the information provided by the variables listed_in and rating. We start with the listed_in variable and change it to genre to give our intended audience a better visual summary of the most watched genres and, from the resulting graph, international movies, dramas and comedies are the top three. Next, we employ the necessary package to visualize the ratings distribution which illustrates to us that most shows are for a mature audience (TV-MAT), then TV-14 and TV-PG.

The above analysis indicates that there should be more focus on international movies, dramas, comedies, international TV shows and documentaries whereas content around horror movies and musicals could be scrapped. Whereas British TV shows are among the least watched, they may appeal to the UK audience that makes the third largest going by country. Given the ratings distribution, there should be more focus on content for adults (TV-MAT), young teenagers (TV-14) and children (TV-PG). 

Finally, we implement the rating distribution visualization using R.
